---
title: Joy first
image: "/images/posts/joy-first.jpg"
author: Alessandra
id: 25
suggested:
- 1
- 7
- 28
summary: Today I burst into tears of emotion when, getting out of the classroom IX
  of the university, I realized that I had just taken the thirteenth exam of the year.
---

Crying, I wondered: how could we manage to take 13 exams in 5 months? At the time when I was a student, five exams already seemed so many... How did we do it? As I was crying and repeating this sentence, I started to think about all the laundries Francesco hung out to give me time to study, the frozen pizzas we had for dinner, our bathroom, inaccessible without spacesuits and oxygen cans, the cabinet drawers, which shall be opened in secret when even our Father who is in heaven doesn’t watch, the moldy cheese in the fridge and the morning miraculous catch of underwear from the mountain range of clothes to fold.

I don’t want to talk about us, how good we are or not in reaching the goal, risking to be suffocated by one inch long socks to be coupled and folded. I just want to say that if you're happy, you can do anything. If you are happy, any goal is at your fingertips; any effort is light. If you are happy there is no effort that can knock you down. **If you chase the most beautiful and important things first, these will give you the joy and determination to do anything else.** And if the Lord puts His stamp on this joy... then you’ve nailed it; then you savor the fulfillment, the taste of beauty. I think that I would have never been able to spend so many nights on books **if my heart wasn’t resting in the relationship with Francesco**.

I think if I had not had him, I wouldn’t have known love, I wouldn’t have really known myself, and even the mercy God has for me. Thirteen exams in five months are not a big deal compared to all this. I thank the Lord for His faithfulness to our marriage and for His faithfulness to me.

For me, going to University was the opportunity to avoid rushing ahead, and having the possibility to do twenty-year-old things even though I was married and a mom. The Lord has been as faithful with me as He was with Mary: she wanted to consecrate both her body and her soul to Him, **and God made her both virgin and mother**. The Lord always gives a hundredfold: mother and wife and, shortly, also with a degree (for what it's worth!). This is a generous God, full of grace and abundant in Love. The last exam is in ten days, and then we uncork some sparkling wine (which is already waiting in the kitchen!).
